website/blogs: Blog about closed source vs open source (#6890)
goauthentik/authentik: website/blog/2023-09-14-closed-source-does-not-equal-secure/item.md

---

> title: Closed source does not equal secure

Reviewer: You might be able to do the original suggestion if you enclose in quotation marks:
```suggestion
title: "Closed source does != more secure"
```

slug: 2023-09-14-closed-source-does-not-equal-secure
authors:
    - name: Jens Langhammer
      title: CTO at Authentik Security Inc
      url: https://github.com/BeryJu
      image_url: https://github.com/BeryJu.png
tags:
    - open core
    - SSO
    - open source
    - community
    - identity provider
    - enterprise
    - source available
    - closed source
    - security
    - authentication
hide_table_of_contents: false
image: ./image1.jpg
---

> **_authentik is an open source Identity Provider that unifies your identity needs into a single platform, replacing Okta, Active Directory, and auth0. Authentik Security is a [public benefit company](https://github.com/OpenCoreVentures/ocv-public-benefit-company/blob/main/ocv-public-benefit-company-charter.md) building on top of the open source project._**

---

> Legacy security vendors that rely on black box development are no match for the pace of innovation and transparency of open source. It's an oft-discussed topic-the ability of open source communities to quickly jump in and collectively solve problems and innovate solutions-but it is equally believed that "serious" security software companies have proprietary software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Legacy security vendors that rely on black box development can't keep up with open source. It's an oft-discussed topic-the ability of open source communities to quickly jump in and collectively solve problems and innovate solutions-but it is equally believed that "serious" security software companies have proprietary software.
```

> Legacy security vendors that rely on black box development are no match for the pace of innovation and transparency of open source. It's an oft-discussed topic, the ability of open source communities to quickly jump in and collectively solve problems and innovate solutions, but it is equally believed that "serious" security software companies have proprietary software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Legacy security vendors that rely on black box development are no match for the pace of innovation and transparency of open source. It's an oft-discussed topic—the ability of open source communities to quickly jump in and collectively solve problems and innovate solutions—but it is equally believed that "serious" security software companies have proprietary software.
```

In this blog, we will take a closer look at the pros and cons of the various source availability types of SSO and other security software.

!["mike-kononov-lFv0V3_2H6s-unsplash.jpg"](./image1.jpg)

<!--truncate-->

> Since we’re going to use these terms a lot in our discussion, this is what we mean by open source, closed source, and so on:

Reviewer: This differs from the most recent version in the Google doc

Author: Ah, only the table formatting is different, not the words/definitions. The formatting from the google doc translated into a table with a header row, which we don't want.

| Source available | Code that is publicly visible, but must be licensed to use, modify, or distribute (e.g. the proprietary code of an open core company) |

## Why do people choose closed vs open source?

### Security through obscurity

“Walled garden” security software relies on keeping the code secret, which _can_ make it harder for hackers to exploit. Some open source skeptics say that transparency makes the code more vulnerable: bad actors can inspect and modify open source code without having to dig into binary code or reverse engineer anything.

However, with closed source solutions, you’re completely reliant on the vendor having robust security practices—both before and during the event of a critical vulnerability. The technology landscape shifts so quickly and your possible attack surface grows constantly, so it can be a tall order for teams working on proprietary software to keep up with innovation. Closed source software is still vulnerable to zero-day attacks or exploitation of systems that haven’t yet applied a security patch.

### Getting ahead of vulnerabilities

> Closed source companies do implement bug bounty programs, but the prizes need to be sufficiently compelling, because bad actors can still choose to disclose their findings to the highest bidder instead of the vendor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bug bounty programs are one way for closed source security vendors to preempt exploitation, but the prizes need to be sufficiently compelling. Bad actors can still choose to disclose their findings to the highest bidder instead of the vendor. 
```

### Open source projects can have certifications too

Not all open source projects have the time and resources to invest in certifications, but some are pursuing these to make it easier for our solution to be approved for use. At Authentik Security, we’re currently working towards an [ICO/ISE 27001](https://www.iso.org/standard/27001).

### Certifications don’t _guarantee_ better security

Certifications don’t cover all possible paths to exploitation. Simply proving that a third party verified that you’re taking _some_ steps to safeguard some data isn’t enough. As the saying goes, the defender needs to win every time, but the attacker only needs to win once.

With [supply chain attacks](https://goauthentik.io/blog/2023-04-07-supply-chain-attacks-what-we-can-all-do-better) becoming more common, you can better understand the provenance of open source code, because you have visibility into dependencies and can validate whether the project is using security tools like Static Composition Analysis (SCA), static or dynamic application security testing (SAST/DAST), multi-factor authentication, etc.

## Support and accountability

> “... big corporations want a neck to choke when things go wrong and Linus is hard to track down” — [steppinraz0r on reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/cybersecurity/comments/15c3h0q/told_by_a_senior_programmer_that_open_source/jtz0yzx/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>“... big corporations want a neck to choke when things go wrong and Linus is hard to track down” — [steppinraz0r on reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/cybersecurity/comments/15c3h0q/told_by_a_senior_programmer_that_open_source/jtz0yzx/)
```

There are some legitimate concerns to raise with closed source support though. Some vendors outsource technical support to a third party, which may or may not be vetted (as in the [Okta breach of January 2022](https://www.forbes.com/sites/thomasbrewster/2022/03/23/okta-hack-exposes-a-huge-hole-in-tech-giant-security/)). And, as we saw above, [open source projects actually beat closed source vendors on TTF](https://go.snyk.io/state-of-open-source-security-report-2023-dwn-typ.html).

Security, authentication, and identity management are mission-critical services. For most companies, it’s wiser to be able to run and manage these in house. Again, open core can provide a happy medium solution, as you get:

-   The visibility and transparency of open source
-   Total flexibility and modifiability over the open core
-   A contract with a company who is actively contributing to and improving the product, and
-   Support for setup and remediation (we just launched dedicated [support for Authentik Security Enterprise](https://goauthentik.io/blog/2023-08-31-announcing-the-authentik-enterprise-release)!)

## Neither open nor closed source is _inherently_ more secure

> “The idea that software is inherently safer because it’s released under an open source license is overly simplistic in the extreme. Just the most obvious reason for this is that opportunity for independent review doesn't guarantee that review will happen. The wisdom of the crowd doesn’t guarantee a third-party review will be better or more thorough than a solid first-party system. Open source provides the possibility of review, and that’s all. Hypothetical eyes make no bugs shallow.” — [godel_unicode on Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=12284600)

Reviewer: Can you make this look like a pull quote? I think the below markdown will indent it
```suggestion
>“The idea that software is inherently safer because it’s released under an open source license is overly simplistic in the extreme. Just the most obvious reason for this is that opportunity for independent review doesn't guarantee that review will happen. The wisdom of the crowd doesn’t guarantee a third-party review will be better or more thorough than a solid first-party system. Open source provides the possibility of review, and that’s all. Hypothetical eyes make no bugs shallow.” — [godel_unicode on Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=12284600)
```

Open source is not a silver bullet for security. The code may be open for inspection, but that doesn’t mean that people are actively examining the code for vulnerabilities.

> “There is evidence that the people who have access to open source are more active in creating new code and extensions than auditing existing code. [One recent study](https://www.darkreading.com/application-security/open-source-developers-still-not-interested-in-secure-coding) showed that OSS developers spent less than 3% of their time working on improving security.” — Eugene H. Spafford, Josiah Dykstra, Leigh Metcalf, [What is Cybersecurity?](https://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=3172442&seqNum=9)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>“There is evidence that the people who have access to open source are more active in creating new code and extensions than auditing existing code. [One recent study](https://www.darkreading.com/application-security/open-source-developers-still-not-interested-in-secure-coding) showed that OSS developers spent less than 3% of their time working on improving security.” — Eugene H. Spafford, Josiah Dykstra, Leigh Metcalf, [What is Cybersecurity?](https://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=3172442&seqNum=9)
```
